#CrowdFunding - About the project

Crowd Funding for Farmers aims at reducing suicides in the farming society which is due to lack of interest-free farming loans for farmers. The current funding mechanisms from banks and other financial institutions are stringent on loan repayment and do not factor in losses during farming due to natural calamities and other related issues. Once a farmer becomes defaulter, he/she will not be eligible for any further loans from the government institutions and usually enter the clutches of money lenders and obtain loans at very high interest rates. A default on money lenders loans results in loss of land and leads to suicides among farmers.
Through the proposed solution, people of India who are interested, can contribute a maximum of Rs.100/- to our app with an assurance that in future they will receive 5-10kgs of produce, which they can obtain from a nearby grocery store.
The app will send the money to a government bank, which will give interest free loans to the farming society. The bank will also take an insurance policy on behalf of the farming society for the total farming activity from General Insurance Corporation of India (GIC) with the pool money.
The farming society will use the money to do farming and if successful, will send the produce to the appropriate online grocery stores like Big Basket. In case the farming activities fails that season, the GIC will reimburse the financial institution the respective farming loan amount allowing the farming society to obtain loans for the next season without hassles.
